ID: 101
Topic: Junk Food
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What can we consider junk food?
2. Why is junk food considered to be unhealthy?
3. Is it possible to live without junk food?
4. How often can you eat junk food without detriment to your health?
5. What kind of junk food is the unhealthiest?
6. Since what age should children be allowed to eat junk food?
7. What food should be sold in school canteens?
8. What is your attitude to dietary additives like E-supplements?
9. Do you think the food in our groceries is checked properly?
10. Do you think junk food is the future of mankind?

ID: 102
Topic: A Life of Productivity
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Are the tasks you work on during the day the ones with the highest priority?
2. How do you prioritize tasks when there is a lot to do?
3. Are you stressed about deadlines?
4. Do you find yourself completing tasks at the last minute?
5. What are your ways to flight downtime?
6. Are you good at shutting yourself off distractions?
7. Do you think time management is really useful and needed?
8. What are the good and bad sides of time management, in your opinion?
9. Do you think it is possible to be an efficient multitasker for any person?
10. Do you think that setting long-term goals is good?

ID: 103
Topic: Travelling by Planes
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What are the advantages and disadvantages of traveling by airplane?
2. Does a plane provide anything to do to pass the time?
3. What can be done to solve the problem of obese people who practically take up two seats?
4. Why do you think that most pilots are men?
5. Are airplanes really safer than cars?
6. Would you rather have a younger, more beautiful/handsome flight attendant or an older, more experienced one?
7. Do you think being a pilot is a good job?
8. What are the advantages and disadvantages of being a member of a flight crew?
9. Do you think that air traffic controllers share the same level of responsibility for people`s lives as the members of flight crews?
10. Do you think planes will get larger or faster in future?

ID: 104
Topic: Is it Easy for you to Say “No”?
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Is it easy for you to say “No”?
2. In what situations it’s particularly easy or difficult for you?
3. Is it easy for you to say “I don't know”?
4. Is it easy for you to say “I don't understand”?
5. Is it easy for you to say “I don't care”?
6. Is it easy for you to say that you’ve changed your mind?
7. Is it easy for you to admit your mistakes?
8. Is it easy for you to confront an opinion of group of other people?
9. Is it easy for you to refuse to help another person?
10. Can you say that the easier person says “No”, the more egoistic he/she is?

ID: 105
Topic: Is it Easy to Be Patient?
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you think a person should be patient in every situation?
2. Are there any situations when it is fine to lose temper?
3. What is good and what is bad about being patient all the time?
4. Is patience a very important personal quality?
5. Why do people say “patience is a virtue”?
6. How can you increase your patience?
7. Do you think teachers need a lot of patience?
8. Do you think it`s possible to be always patient with your children?
9. Do you think doctors need a lot of patience?
10. Is it possible to learn how to be patient in your opinion?

ID: 106
Topic: Rudeness in our Society
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Why so many people behave politely in public but allow themselves being rude with dear people – friends, relatives, spouses?
2. Should a person be rude back if someone is rude to him/her?
3. What rude behavior do you see in public every day?
4. Who do you think decides what’s rude and what’s not?
5. do you think it`s fine to swear in public?
6. What do you do when sales staff in shops or waiting staff in restaurants are very rude?
7. Do you think it’s rude to correct someone’s grammar mistakes in a conversation?
8. Do you think it’s rude to ask someone’s age?
9. Do you think it’s rude to ask someone’s religion?
10. What other topics should be a taboo in modern society in your opinion?

ID: 107
Topic: Is Modern Life Killing us?
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. How can you describe modern life?
2. How does technology help modern life?
3. Is the pace of modern life affecting individuals' happiness?
4. What are the different ways how modern life is killing us?
5. Are there more opportunities in modern life than earlier?
6. What are the ways of finding a better work/life balance in modern life?
7. How can a person chill out in modern life?
8. Does modern life affect more women’s health than men’s health?
9. Does modern life kill relationships and make couples unfaithful?
10. Do you agree that in modern life there is too much of work and lack of time?

ID: 108
Topic: Dress Code
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What do you think about the necessity of following a dress code at work?
2. Do we need dress codes or uniforms at school?
3. Do you think that if women wore whatever they wanted at work this might lead to the increase in the number of cases of sexual harassment from their male co-workers?
4. Why is it that skirts are for women and trousers are for men?
5. Should men be allowed to wear skirts to work if they want to?
6. If it were up to you to make the dress code at your work/school, what would it be and why?
7. Do you think that dress codes at night clubs and restaurants should be banned?
8. Do you think that if schoolchildren wore whatever they wanted that would cause conflicts between rich and poor children?
9. Do you think it`s ok for young men who belong to certain subcultures to wear a special outfit at school or university?
10. Do you think that introducing a dress code can cause protests at school/work?

ID: 109
Topic: Good and Bad Weather
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What's your favorite season and why?
2. Are there any special traditions associated with different seasons in your country?
3. What is harder for a human being to stand: extreme cold or extreme hot weather?
4. If you had to choose one of two things what would you choose: to live in a desert or in tundra?
5. Do you think weather patterns are changing?
6. Do you agree that human activity is affecting the climate in a bad way?
7. Do you think weather affects the way people feel?
8. What is the relationship between weather and natural disasters?
9. How to you depend on the weather reports on TV?
10. Do you think that the climate of the planet will change in future?

ID: 110
Topic: What is it Like Being a Celebrity?
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Whom would you call a celebrity?
2. Do you think anyone can become a celebrity?
3. Do you think celebrities like Oprah Winfrey deserve the millions of dollars they get paid?
4. Why are so many people obsessed with celebrities?
5. What do you think are the downsides to being a celebrity?
6. Would you like to be interviewed by celebrity magazines?
7. Do you think there are different levels of celebrity?
8. Do you think all celebrities are talented?
9. Do you think celebrities like being celebrities?
10. Would you like to be a celebrity?

ID: 111
Topic: Stereotypes and People Following them
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What springs to mind when you hear the word “stereotype”?
2. Are stereotypes usually accurate?
3. Can stereotypes of people be fair?
4. Are stereotypes god or bad?
5. Where do stereotypes come from?
6. Which people today do you think are being unfairly stereotyped?
7. What are the stereotypes of men and women?
8. Is there a group of people who are guiltier than most of creating stereotypes?
9. Do you think information technology has reduced or increased racial stereotyping?
10. Should stereotyping be made illegal?

ID: 112
Topic: Kissing and Problems it Creates
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What springs to mind when you hear the word “kissing”?
2. What do you think about kissing?
3. When and why do you think kissing first started?
4. What do you think an alien visiting our planet would think of people kissing?
5. Do you think that different nations use kissing for similar reasons?
6. At what age is it OK for people to start kissing?
7. Is there anything unhealthy about kissing?
8. Do you think kissing on a crowded train is OK?
9. What would you do if you saw your partner kissing someone else?
10. Are there, or should there be, any rules to kissing?

ID: 113
Topic: Gossip and Rumors
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. How would you define gossip?
2. Can it be a positive thing sometimes?
3. What do you think of those who spread gossips?
4. Does it happen to you when you gossip unintentionally?
5. Can we trust any information that we hear on a grapevine?
6. Do you consider yourself a reliable person in keeping secrets?
7. Do you think it`s ok to discuss your close friends or relatives with other people behind their back?
8. Do you think you should accuse other people of gossiping in public if you are sure of that?
9. What is your attitude to gossip about famous people?
10. Do you think our life would lose its edge if there were no gossips at all?

ID: 114
Topic: Dangers that Surround us
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you think every person experiences danger at some point in his life?
2. Do you think that facing danger makes a person`s spirit stronger?
3. Do you understand those who do dangerous sports?
4. Are you a person that worries about nothing or everything?
5. Would you risk your life for someone?
6. Do you believe that our body can do miracles when we are facing a dangerous situation?
7. What country do you consider the most dangerous in the world and why?
8. Are there jobs that are constantly related to dangerous situations?
9. Would you choose any kind of profession that is risky in some way?
10. Can we stay away from danger?

ID: 115
Topic: Advice. To Give or not to Give?
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you like to give pieces of advice?
2. Do you like when someone else gives you advice?
3. Do you think that you are quite wise person in giving advice?
4. Is there any person whose pieces of advice you respect more than others?
5. Do you usually follow advice fully or partially?
6. Do you find that people who always give pieces of advice are annoying?
7. Do you think that we should ask before giving pieces of advice?
8. Why shouldn't psychologists give advice?
9. What is good and what is bad about giving advices?
10. Do you think that all the pieces of advice given to you by other people were useful?

ID: 117
Topic: Behavior and Misbehavior
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Why do some children seem naturally well-mannered, while others seem difficult?
2. How can you raise well-behaved children?
3. Would you teach your child to “hit back” at school if somebody hits him?
4. Is there any behavior that you would not find acceptable?
5. Have you ever not tolerated someone`s behavior?
6. Do you care what other people think of your behavior?
7. Do you care about the private behavior of politicians/celebrities?
8. Does economic status affect people's behavior?
9. Should people act on their feelings?
10. Do you think that immoral behavior is a consequence of bad circumstances/choices or it`s a person`s nature?

ID: 118
Topic: Good and Bad News
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you think it's important to know what is going on in the world?
2. What is the role of newspapers in society?
3. How do you think will newspapers disappear in the future?
4. What is the best way of getting the news (radio/TV/Internet)?
5. Do you think the news tells us just information without giving its opinion?
6. Do you trust the information you get from the news?
7. Do you think you can trust the news you read in the Internet?
8. Do you think it`s ok to punish people for fake new in the Internet?
9. Do you think there is more cruelty shown in the news today?
10. Is it possible to live a normal way of life without following the news at all?

ID: 119
Topic: Dealing with Time
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. How important is planning of time for you?
2. How much your success depends on correct planning of time?
3. How much time every week should a person devote to work/family/friends/oneself?
5. What, in your opinion, is wasting of time?
6. Do you think a person should have an active or passive rest?
7. Do you agree that every minute of our life should be used for a certain purpose?
8. What is your attitude towards the fact that Russia do not pass to the summer time anymore?
9. Do you think that it is really hard for some people to get up early in the morning or work late at night?
10. Do you think that everyone should stick to a certain regime?

ID: 120
Topic: Personal Portrait
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What are some characteristics of your personality?
2. Are you satisfied with your personality?
3. Are you more introverted or more extraverted?
4. Is your personality suited to your job?
5. Do you think birth order (oldest, youngest or middle) makes a difference in personality?
6. Do you think you have an unusual personality? Why?
7. What personal traits do you consider important in a good friend/a boss/a partner?
8. If you could change any aspect of your personality, what would it be?
9. Do you believe that there are no perfect personalities?
10. What do you think is more important when you want to produce a good impression - your personal traits or your knowledge and experience?

ID: 121
Topic: Holidays and Celebrations
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What is your favorite holiday and why do you like it?
2. What is the best way to celebrate something, in your opinion?
3. Is there any holiday you dislike?
4. What do you think of the traditional Western holiday such as Halloween, Valentine’s Day?
5. If you could visit any other country during Christmas, where would you go?
6. Do you think it`s fine to celebrate holidays that are not considered to be traditional ones in your country/culture?
7. Do you think it`s OK to congratulate or be congratulated with religious holidays if you are not a religious person?
8. Do you agree that the original meaning of Easter got lost?
9. What is the best birthday present, in your opinion?
10. Would you rather stay at home with your family or go to a party with your friends on a New Year`s eve?

ID: 122
Topic: Social Responsibility
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What are pros and cons of being a socially responsible person?
2. Do you think we play by the rules of society only because we are afraid of breaking the law and being punished?
3. Are you tolerant towards those who don’t play by the rules of society?
4. Under what circumstances would you do “wrong” things (lie, hide your income, pretend to be sick to stay at home)?
5. Do you think that every person should take care of disabled or poor people in some way?
6. Should businesses have an obligation to improve the society?
7. What are the benefits of corporate social responsibility?
8. Should society be concerned about people who are not able to fulfill their financial obligations and support bankrupts?
9. Do you think that the government of your country should be more socially responsible and care for the citizens of your country more?
10. Do you think you are a socially responsible person?

ID: 123
Topic: Earnings and Spendings
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What is easier for you: to earn or to spend money?
2. Which of two mentioned things do you like more?
3. If you like both things how do you manage to be successful in it?
4. Do you have problems with earning or spending?
5. How can we reach the balance between earnings and spendings?
6. Is it possible to earn money while being single?
7. Do you think that spouses should share their money with each other or should each spouse spend his/her own money independently?
8. What are the pros and cons of having a common budget within a family?
9. Do you think it`s a good thing to plan your spendings?
10. Can any person get rich?

ID: 124
Topic: Philanthropist or Misanthropist?
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you like people in general?
2. Perhaps, you prefer to be as far as possible from them?
3. Is there any age limit to these qualities?
4. Do we pave the hell with our good intentions?
5. Is it right to keep always away from people, to minimize communication with them?
6. Do we have the right to interfere in order to change a certain situation for the better?
7. Is there any harm in this interference with good intentions?
8. Do you think all people should take some part in charity or is it just a matter of one`s personal choice?
9. Do you think that if you want to call yourself a human being, you should really love people?
10. Do you think that misanthropy can be somehow justified?

ID: 125
Topic: Ways of Upbringing
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you think that the character of a person is determined by his inborn qualities or is formed during his childhood?
2. Is it possible to form a good/bad character by upbringing?
3. What does a good upbringing mean, in your opinion?
4. Is it possible to bring up children without punishment?
5. What is better for child, from your point of view: to go to a kindergarten or to be at home with a babysitter?
6. Do you think it`s fine to trust the upbringing of kids to babysitters?
7. What is better for child, from your point of view: to begin to study as early as possible (art, music, sport, languages, reading) or to enjoy childhood without too much education?
8. Should parents determine what kind of hobby their children should have or should they give them the freedom of choice?
9. If your child wanted a pet, would you buy it?
10. Do you think that parents should determine what kind of profession their children should take up or should they let them decide for themselves?

ID: 126
Topic: Household Chores
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you think that every person has to do household chores all the time?
2. How should household duties be divided among the members of a family?
3. Who, in your opinion, should do more household work: husband or wife?
4. Do you think that parents should force children do some household chores?
5. Do you think that every person should plan his time for cleaning his apartment or do it when it is necessary?
6. Do you think that parents should teach their children how to do certain kinds of household chores or should they let them get around with them on their own?
7. What is good or bad about having a house-maid?
8. Do you agree that people should be relieved from doing housework and all household duties should be done by robots?
9. Why do you think some people manage to do household duties and work but others don`t?
10. Do you think that it is worth spending money on cleaning services?

ID: 127
Topic: Is Communication Face-to-Face Still Alive?
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you easily communicate with new people?
2. Do you have an ability to make friends?
3. What personal qualities are the most important ones for making new acquaintances/friends, in your opinion?
4. How do you understand the meaning of the word “sociable”?
5. Do you believe that communication face-to-face is still alive?
6. Is it true that TV/Internet/other media have substituted real conversation?
7. Is there any difference between our communication habits now and 5-10 years ago?
8. What, in your opinion, did influence significantly on our communicational habits?
9. Do you think that people communicate with their friends at social networking sites more than in real life?
10. What will you choose: to stay alone on a deserted island for the rest of your life with a full access to all modern media (Internet included) or be deprived of the access to the Internet but be able to talk to people in person?

ID: 128
Topic: Watching TV
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Does television play an important role in our day-to-day life?
2. Do you think we can “survive” without television?
3. Do you think that television will be completely replaced by the Internet in future?
4. What will stop you from giving up TV?
5. Do you think TV news is a credible source of information?
6. Do you think there are a lot of people that believe everything they hear on TV?
7. Do you think that TV can be both entertaining and educating at the same time?
8. Do you agree that the time that children spend on watching TV should be limited by their parents?
9. Do you think that the government in your country is using TV and/or other mass media to influence people`s minds?
10. How will TV change in 20 years?

ID: 129
Topic: Does Smoking Really Kill?
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Why do people start smoking, in your opinion?
2. What are the pros and cons of smoking?
3. Are some types of smoking more dangerous than others?
4. Why to people decide to quit smoking, in your opinion?
5. What are the positive and negative effects of quitting smoking?
6. What is easier - gradual withdrawal from nicotine or quit cold turkey?
7. Is it possible to help someone else to quit smoking?
8. Should the smoking be prohibited in public places?
9. Is it possible, in your opinion, to prohibit manufacturing and sales of cigarettes?
10. Do you think that smoking is as dangerous as it is described by medical specialists?

ID: 130
Topic: Does Alcohol Really Kill?
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Is it possible to balance alcohol consumption and a healthy lifestyle?
2. Should parents be able to determine drinking age for their children before the age of 18 (as opposed to the government controlling this)?
3. Is it OK to drive after drinking alcohol? What`s your attitude to drunk drivers?
4. What are the pros and cons of selling alcohol after 10 p.m.?
5. Do Russians really drink too much? Is alcoholism a big problem in Russia?
6. Is contraband/low quality alcohol a big problem in Russia?
7. What is a worse enemy for one`s health: cigarettes or alcohol?
8. Is it possible to have fun without alcohol?
9. Why do you think people drink alcohol?
10. Is it possible to stop drinking too much alcohol?

ID: 131
Topic: Single Mothers
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What are the factors contributing to the changes in society for single mothers?
2. Where are the families and society social structures heading to in the modern world?
3. What is it like to be a single mother?
4. What are the problems single mothers are facing in Russia and around the world?
5. How can a woman make her ex pay alimony?
6. Why do some women choose to give birth to a child, but raise him without a partner?
7. Is it better for a child to live in an incomplete family rather than in an orphan home?
8. What are the government and civil society's initiatives to provide a safety net for single mothers?
9. What strengths do women already possess that will enhance her as single Mom?
10. What are the most difficult things for single mothers, in your opinion?

ID: 132
Topic: The Life of Children
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you think everyone should have children?
2. How many children should people have?
3. What’s your opinion of people who choose not to have children?
4. What’s your understanding of the terms “childless” and “childfree”?
5. Is it better to have children or not have them?
6. What are some good and bad reasons for having children?
7. What are some good and bad reasons for not having children?
8. Should people who can’t afford children have them anyway?
9. How old should a person be before they have children?
10. Should a single person have children?

ID: 133
Topic: Studying English
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What images are in your mind when you hear the word “English”?
2. Why are you studying English?
3. Has English improved your life?
4. Why is English so important?
5. Do you think English is more or less difficult than your language?
6. What's more important: speaking, reading, writing or listening?
7. Do you think everyone should know English well?
8. How can the knowledge of English help a person in his life?
9. How would your life change if you were fluent in English?
10. Can English be called the most important language in the world?

ID: 134
Topic: Foreign Languages
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. How fast can we study new languages?
2. Are there any magic techniques for mastering foreign languages or should we work a lot to do that?
4. Should a person invent his own system for studying a foreign language or is it better to use a traditional approach?
5. What are the best ways of learning foreign languages can you recommend?
6. Why is it good to know a foreign language?
7. Do we need to live in a foreign country to really master its language?
8. Do you think that knowing the language of a country that you are visiting can help you to avoid any problems with natives?
9. Is it possible to buy a language? The more expensive tutorial the better it is?
10. What is the key to success when studying a foreign language, in your opinion?

ID: 135
Topic: Making Fun
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you think that we shouldn`t take all what`s happening in life too seriously?
2. What jokes can be inappropriate to make in public?
3. Is it easier to live when you treat everything with a smile on your face?
4. Do you think it`s OK to set up pranks on your friends/partner/relatives?
5. What usually makes people laugh?
6. Why do people react to the same joke differently?
7. Why do people all over the world celebrate April Fool’s Day?
8. What was the reason why anecdotes appeared, in your opinion?
9. What really makes a joke good?
10. What would our life be without humor?

ID: 136
Topic: Countries and Nations
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What country would you like to live in and why?
2. What country would be fun to work in?
3. What country has the most interesting customs?
4. Would you like to work in Antarctica?
5. Would you like to live where there is always snow?
6. Would you like to live where there is desert and hot weather?
7. What countries would you not like to visit and why?
8. Is your country the best place for you to live?
9. What is special about your country?
10. What are some similarities and differences between your country and neighboring ones?

ID: 137
Topic: Culture Shock
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. How do you feel when you leave your home culture and enter into a completely new culture?
2. What is culture shock?
3. How do you understand the meaning of the term “language barrier”?
4. What do you think is important when visiting another culture?
5. Do you think a person should learn some customs and traditions before visiting any foreign country?
6. Do you think “when in Rome, do as the Romans do” is always good advice?
7. Have you ever been in a situation where you felt you had to "do as the Romans do"?
8. What things in your own culture can be shocking for foreigners, in your opinion?
9. What do you like the least about your culture?
10. What is the best/most important thing your culture has given to the world?

ID: 138
Topic: Why Do People Travel?
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. For which purposes do you usually travel?
2. What is your preferred method of transport, and why?
3. Do you think people who have travelled the world, are wiser than those who have stayed in one place all their lives?
4. What do you think of people who only hitchhike during their holidays, and stay in people's homes for free that they have found on couch surfing websites?
5. What do you think of people who spend lot of money on expensive holidays?
6. What do you think about camping?
7. Do you think some people are discriminated against by locals, when they visit their country or region?
8. Do you think it` good to travel light?
9. Would do you think about safaris or wild nature tours?
10. Would you like to travel for the rest of your life and why?

ID: 139
Topic: Self-Discipline
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What comes to your mind whenever you hear the words “willpower” and “self-discipline”?
2. Do you think that self-discipline is one of the most important and useful skills everyone should possess?
3. Do you sometimes feel that you lack the inner strength to take action, act assertively or be persistent?
4. Are there any habits you want to change, but you lack the necessary willpower and self-discipline?
5. Is inner strength really the expression of willpower?
6. What is self-control for you?
7. Are you the kind of person that like to do or study something complicated? What really gives you the willpower to continue?
8. Do you find it easy or difficult to do exercises?
9. Do you lose yourself in your work or do you often find yourself so absorbed in your favorite pastime that you lose track of time?
10. Why do many people end up not keeping to their resolution? Do you think it is the lack of willpower?

ID: 140
Topic: Obesity. Is it Really Dangerous?
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What comes to mind when you hear the word “obesity”?
2. Do you think all people who are fat are unhealthy and people who thin are healthy?
3. Why is obesity bad for your health?
4. Is obesity a disease or a choice?
5. Which is worse, obesity or anorexia?
6. Do you think obesity will be more of a problem in the future?
7. What are the main causes of obesity, in your opinion?
8. What is the best way to fight obesity, in your opinion?
9. Why do obese people have a low level of self-confidence?
10. Is obesity immoral when so many people in the world are starving?

ID: 141
Topic: How to Stay Young and Beautiful
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. How to stay young and beautiful in terms of diet?
2. Do you know how different foods affect our body metabolism?
3. Can practicing Yoga, aerobics, fitness, being a vegetarian can slowdown ageing process?
4. Is ageing process is more of a biological thing than eating right diet?
5. Does exposing to sunlight long time damages your skin and makes a person look older?
6. Do you think ageing is only in your mind?
7. Do you think that drinking red wine is good for health?
8. Does water play important role to keep our body and skin healthy?
9. Is eating chocolate good for health?
10. Do you think that there are secret recipes of a long life that are used by long-livers?

ID: 142
Topic: Hitchhiking as a Way to Travel
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What springs to mind when you hear the word “hitchhiking”?
2. What are the pros and cons of hitchhiking?
3. Do you think hitchhiking can be dangerous?
4. What is the best way to get a ride?
5. What safety precautions should you take when hitchhiking?
6. Do you think hitchhiking is a fun way to travel around?
7. Why do you think people like hitchhiking?
8. Why do many people have a romantic image about hitchhiking, in your opinion?
9. What kind of people would you not stop for if you saw them trying to thumb a ride?
10. What kind of cars would you not get into if you were hitchhiking?

ID: 143
Topic: Relationship at Work
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Why do love affairs at work happen so often?
2. Why do love affairs rarely end up as a marriage?
3. Why do many companies prohibit love affairs between the workers of the company and between the workers and clients/partners, in your opinion?
4. Do you think only girls marry or have a love affair with their bosses?
5. Is it possible to work together with your date/spouse?
6. What`s it like to work with your ex?
7. Do you think that it`s harder to concentrate on your work when you are in love with your colleague who is working beside you?
8. Do you think that colleagues who are in love with each other understand their work problems better?
9. Do you think that colleagues who are married have a stronger marriage than spouses that are not colleagues?
10. What are the pros and cons of having a relationship at work?

ID: 144
Topic: Own Business vs. Working for a Boss
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. How do you understand the term “freelance”?
2. What are the pros and cons of being a freelancer, in your opinion?
3. The aspect of discipline: is it difficult to get down working when there is nobody to control you?
4. How much, do you think, will a salary of a freelancer and a regular worker differ?
5. What is the biggest challenge in the work of a freelancer, in your opinion?
6. Is being a freelancer and running a business of your own the same thing?
7. Do you think people who started a business are different from those working for a boss?
8. What gives you more freedom: running a business or being a regular day worker?
9. Are there more advantages or disadvantages in working for a boss (compared to freelance and running your own business)?
10. Do you know ways to make your everyday working routine more interesting, exciting?

ID: 145
Topic: Family Issues
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What is the role of family in modern society?
2. How important is it to have good relationships with your relatives?
3. Do you think that every member of a family should have some particular duties?
4. Do you agree with the statement that husband is a head of a family or you are for the democracy inside of a family?
5. Do you think it is good when a woman takes up the leading role in a family?
6. What is the perfect number of children to have?
7. What do you think of married couples who decide not to have any child?
8. Do you think that it is good to have a traditional distribution of roles between a husband and a wife in a family?
9. Are friends more important than family?
10. How would you describe the perfect family?

ID: 146
Topic: The Phenomenon of Consumption
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Consumption and capitalism: do they go in lockstep?
2. What are the pros and cons of living in consumer society?
3. What are the main features of consumer society, in your opinion?
4. Do you think that it is true that money can buy nearly everything nowadays?
5. Do people buy luxurious things just to show off or underline their status?
6. What are the pros and cons of using credit cards?
7. Public commercials and advertising - how powerful are they?
8. Do you think that advertising forces people to follow new trends or creates new trends?
9. Do you think that there are more materialists than idealists in consumer society?
10. If Consumption is a disease, is there a cure from it?

ID: 147
Topic: Same Sex Relationships
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What are your thoughts on legalization of same sex relationships in the USA on a Federal Level?
2. Do you believe same sex couples should be allowed to raise and adopt children of their own?
3. Do you think same sex parents might be better parents than dysfunctional parents?
4. Should LGBT (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transsexual) propaganda/advertising be illegal?
5. Is homosexuality genetic, hereditary or is it a sexual and personal preference someone attains upon growing up?
6. Do you believe there should be a single attitude to LGBT relationships globally?
7. Do you think that LGBT members are discriminated in Russia more than in any other country?
8. Why are there different attitudes to LGBT rights globally?
9. Should government or non-government organizations make decisions in terms of the ways LGBT members should behave?
10. What do you think about marches and parades of LGBT members - is it a good or a bad thing?

ID: 148
Topic: Victory Day
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What does the Victory in the G.P.W. (Great Patriotic War) mean for you?
2. Do you think that Victory Day should be considered not as a holiday but as a Remembrance Day?
3. Do you think that people who managed to live through war are stronger both physically and mentally compared to next generations?
4. Do you think those were soldiers and people of labor who won the G. P. W. or that was a merit of Soviet military leaders?
5. Do you think that veterans should have a better life than they have now?
6. What makes people revise the results of the G.P.W.?
7. Do we have to rewrite history of the G.P.W. according to the new facts?
8. Why do the winners of the G.P.W. live worse than those who were bitten?
9. Do you think people living in our country now would be able to win that war?
10. Is it possible that the Third World War once starts?

ID: 149
Topic: Life after Life
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Does life after life exist? Why do you think so?
2. Is it important to know whether afterlife exists?
3. What is waiting for us, coming back to the Earth: Paradise, Hell, Purgatory?
4. Would you like to come back to this life?
5. What fate would you choose for your eternal life?
6. Do you believe in the existence of Heaven and Hell?
7. What is Paradise and Hell for you?
8. If God does not exist, does it mean that everything is allowed?
9. What advantages and disadvantages does the belief in afterlife give us?
10. Do you think that this world has more than three dimensions?

ID: 150
Topic: Is There a God?
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Is there any evidence for God? Explain?
2. Why did God create us?
3. Does God love everyone the same?
4. What do you think God thinks of the way we live?
5. Why does God let innocent people suffer and evil people prosper?
6. Why doesn’t God answer everyone’s prayers?
7. Why do people who believe in God fight in wars?
8. What does God look like, in your opinion?
9. Why is God always seen as a white man in paintings and drawings?
10. Why we don’t think about God when we are happy but think and pray to God when we are in difficult times?