ID: 151
Topic: What Do we Live for?
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What do people live for?
2. Is there any special purpose for mankind to exist?
3. Has people’s attitude to life changed through time?
4. Has people’s attitude to life become more pessimistic or more optimistic?
5. Is it a good idea to live for somebody`s sake or we should firstly care for ourselves?
6. What way of living do you approve of?
7. What way of living do you disapprove of?
8. Should we sacrifice something for other people in our life?
9. Do you think it`s good to give your life to save another one?
10. Could you imagine a situation when you may be ready to sacrifice your life?

ID: 152
Topic: Should we Save this World?
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Is this world the best one of all possible worlds?
2. What would the world be like if suffering and pain did not exist?
3. Should we sacrifice our lives for some great goals?
4. Do people have missions or is it just a product of their imagination?
5. What can we say about characters of the saviors?
6. Do people like missioners, saviors?
7. Do all attempts to improve the life inevitably lead to bad consequences?
8. Do you think it`s fine to do bad things for the sake of humankind?
9. Can we all do something to make this world a better place to live?
10. Christ, Marks, Lenin, Stalin, Roosevelt, Freud, Dostoyevsky, Kurchatov: did any one of them change the world to better?

ID: 153
Topic: Image-making
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. To make our positive image should we present our real advantages or does the image have nothing to do with the reality?
2. Will people appreciate your degrees if you don`t present them?
3. Must we be modest, unpretentious, retiring?
4. Is it wise to declare your merits in open way, like that: I am a great master of conceptual, logical, and motivational analysis?
5. Who are better image-makers, men or women?
6. What qualities of a woman are in a great demand?
7. What qualities of a man are in a great demand?
8. Do you think it`s fine for a person to attempt creating a better image of himself/herself when dating someone/applying for a job/making a deal?
9. What should we do to become an expert in image-making: to read special books or just to act as we feel?
10. Which respect is more valuable: the respect of thousands of stupid people or the respect of some intelligent ones?

ID: 154
Topic: A Person and Circumstances
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Which way of dealing with circumstances is better: to adjust oneself to circumstances or to alter them?
2. Do you believe that our emotional state depends on our mood only or it depends on current life circumstances?
3. What do you prefer: to do what you can do easily or to overcome difficulties and hardships?
4. Do occasions exist in our world?
5. Do all occasions have their reasons, sometimes unknown to us?
6. Should we adjust ourselves to the inconsistent world or should we adjust the world to our needs?
7. Does everything depend on us?
8. Do you think everything is possible in this world?
9. It is popular today to think that our thoughts can directly influence our world. Do you believe in that?
10. Do you think everyone can become a genius or is it just a gift of fate/God/Nature?

ID: 155
Topic: Pessimism and Optimism
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What is the difference between pessimism and optimism?
2. Are you a pessimist or an optimist? Why?
3. Why do people become pessimists or optimists?
4. What is good and what is bad about being an optimist?
5. What is good and what is bad about being a pessimist?
6. Do you believe that if something can go wrong, it will go wrong?
7. Do you agree that pessimists usually have a more realistic view on life compared to pessimists?
8. Do you think it`s possible to overcome any troubles in life?
9. Do you agree with the following statement: “Nothing of value can be learned from failure”?
10. Do you agree with the concept that every human is the master of his/her life?

ID: 156
Topic: Manipulating Public Conscious
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you think that your opinion of what happens around you in the world can be quite independent?
2. Do you think that there are some powers in society that are interested in manipulating peoples conscious?
3. Do you think that some conspiracy theories have some real grounds to exist?
4. Do you agree that governments of some countries conceal something from people?
5. How often do you realize that information you get is oriented on your forming certain opinion on certain things?
6. Do you think that many people agree with the decisions made by the government of your country because they are presented in a favorable way?
7. Do you think that fashion is something that was invented to manipulate people`s minds?
8. Do you think there is too much propaganda in mass media nowadays?
9. Do you agree that there are a lot of people who can be easily forced to believe anything people say?
10. Do you think church manipulates people`s minds?

ID: 157
Topic: Using your Memory
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you think it`s a good idea to always rely on your memory?
2. Do you think it is possible to train your memory really well?
3. Do you think that memory can only be developed in one`s childhood or it can even be trained by elderly people?
4. What are the pros and cons of relying on one`s memory?
5. Do you think having a good memory is something which is absolutely necessary for being successful in some professional areas?
6. Why do you think our childhood memories are the brightest ones?
7. Is it better to write something important down on a piece of paper or try to remember it instead?
8. Do you think that it`s impossible to learn a foreign language without having a good memory?
9. Is it possible to keep all the necessary things in mind when you are multitasking?
10. Do you think that using electronic gadget for making notes makes our memory less trained?

ID: 158
Topic: To Understand or not to Understand?
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you agree that happiness sis when you are understood by other people?
2. Would you like to be able to read other`s thoughts?
3. What are the pluses and the minuses of having the ability of reading other people`s thoughts?
4. Would you like others to be able to read your thoughts?
5. Do you think that people understand you pretty well?
6. Is it crazy trying to find the meaning of the life?
7. Do you always try to find the cause of causes of what is happening?
8. Do people who don`t understand you often irritate you?
9. Do you think that people should learn to understand each other better?
10. Do you think that misunderstanding arises because sometimes people don`t care about what other people think?

ID: 159
Topic: Is your Fate in your Hands?
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you believe that your fate is in your hands?
2. What do you think about predictions, forecasts?
3. Do you believe in horoscopes?
4. What is your attitude towards coincident?
5. Do you believe in the sixth sense?
6. Do you believe that every event in our life is predetermined?
7. Do you think there is God that controls everything or we live through some universal algorithm?
8. Do you think that science is really able to forecast certain things?
9. What do you think about magicians, psychics and fortune-tellers?
10. Do you think that artificial intelligence will be able to make very accurate forecasts in future?

ID: 160
Topic: Death Penalty
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Does the society have a right to kill people?
2. Can the death penalty be real retaliation for some of most gruesome crimes?
3. Who are worse: worst criminals or respectful politicians who make suffer millions of people and die thousands of them?
4. Death penalty is an easy way to get away with your crimes, because in fact it`s not a penalty at all?
5. The life sentence is a much more severe punishment than the death penalty, isn`t it?
6. Aren`t they the same: arguments against torture and those against capital punishment?
7. Can the fear of penalty be a constraining factor for potential criminals?
8. Are you not afraid that our people will become even crueler after our society will accept the cruelest laws?
9. May we kill insane people?
10. If there is the death penalty, isn`t it the easiest way for some criminal to commit suicide?

ID: 161
Topic: Truth is Born in an Argument
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you like to argue or try to avoid any arguments?
2. What is the difference between argument and discussion?
3. What are the pros and cons of an argument?
4. Do you think it`s possible to find the truth in an argument?
5. What motto is closer to you: “It`s only fools who argue”/”Truth`s born in an argument”?
6. Is it typical for you to consider somebody`s opinion during the argument or you always try to uphold your convictions?
7. Is it easy for you to change your opinion after some argument?
8. What is more effective in an argument: logical reasons or appealing to emotions during an argument?
9. Do you argue only when you`re sure that you can win or ever if you`re not sure that you`ll persuade another person?
10. What is your reaction if you lose the argument?

ID: 162
Topic: Truth and Lies
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Are there people who never lie?
2. Is lying always a bad thing, or is it ok to lie sometimes?
3. Do you lie only when it is necessary? Or does it happen somehow by itself?
4. Do you trust people who say that they never lie?
5. Do you agree that we lie only to those who we fear?
6. Does everyone have his own truth or there is only one truth??
7. If we lie will it inevitably lead to karma consequences? Will we always have to pay for lying even in our current life?
8. Can truth be offensive?
9. Is it good advice to always say everything what you think?
10. Can a person be objective?

ID: 163
Topic: Are we Humans?
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What or who do you think a human being is?
2. What makes us humans?
3. Are we born “criminal”?
4. Are we born “kind” or “wicked”?
5. Do we need a competition?
6. Is envy part of our nature? Do you envy?
7. Are men and women equal?
8. Is it really human to err?
9. Are we more dependent of our emotions and instincts than our consciousness?
10. Can we be called humans because we are humane?

ID: 164
Topic: Is Humankind Cancer of the Earth?
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Is it possible to save the planet from pollution?
2. Do you think that we can live in peace forever or next world war is inevitable?
3. Do you think that hunting should be stopped to preserve wild life on our planet?
4. Do you think that everyone can do something to preserve the Earth?
5. Do you agree that the Universe is to serve humans?
6. Do you think that humankind needs to continue searching for alternative sources of energy to save the planet from pollution and destruction?
7. Do you think that we need to change the way humankind is living nowadays?
8. Do you agree with the idea that human activity can lead to a global catastrophe?
9. Do you think we will be able to explore other planets in future in order to save mankind?
10. Will it be possible for humankind to start a new and better life on another planet?

ID: 165
Topic: Hard Philosophical Questions
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Is it always good to have choices?
2. Which is more important: justice or mercy?
3. Is defining people according to race a social construct or a biological category?
4. Will it ever be possible to travel through time?
5. Will it ever be possible to travel to distant planets?
6. Should terminally ill people be allowed or encouraged to commit suicide?
7. Is it ever okay to break the law? Why and when?
8. Is there such a thing as honor in today’s society?
9. Can a woman be ever justified in getting an abortion?
10. Can torture be ever justified?

ID: 166
Topic: Global Economy. Achievements and Challenges
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What can you say about the present economic situation?
2. Do you think that unemployment will increase/decrease in the next few years?
3. What can we do to help people who have been laid off and who have no real chance of finding another job?
4. What is better in current economic situation: to work for a company or run your own business?
5. Do you think that global economy is too dependent of oil price?
6. Do you think that trade wars will be a common things in future?
7. Will there be a global conflict for resources in future?
8. Which business areas have a bright future, in your opinion?
9. Will there be more poverty in future?
10. Do you think that the use of robots will lead to a global unemployment issue in future?

ID: 167
Topic: Democracy. is it for the People?
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. All governments call their power democratic; but can anybody tell us, what the real democracy is?
2. What is good and what is bad about democracy?
3. Has democracy ever worked? Is it working now anywhere?
4. Is freedom of speech a good or a bad thing?
5. Do you think that truly democratic elections are possible?
6. Can we decide what is right and what is wrong by voting?
7. Does monarchy or autocracy have its advantages compared to democracy?
8. Can there be any alternative to democracy nowadays?
9. Is a referendum a democratic procedure?
10. Can unpopular but necessary arrangements be undertaken in democratic countries?

ID: 168
Topic: The World Conspiracies
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you believe in world conspiracies?
2. Does the secret world government exist?
3. Do you think secret orders still exist and influence our life in a certain way?
4. Are there implicit contracts?
5. Do you think that the world government has already contacted the aliens?
6. Are politicians trying to manipulate our consciousness to make us believe in what they say?
7. Do you think there is the world government conspiracy?
8. Do you think that all people in the world will be watched with the help of electronic tracking systems in future?
9. Do you think in the theory of a “golden milliard”?
10. Do you believe that our history is being rewritten by the secret world government?

ID: 169
Topic: Global Economic Crisis
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Is it a play of forces of nature or is it being done deliberately by some group of people?
2. Don`t you feel that the media promotes the crisis?
3. Who is responsible for global economic crises?
4. What should be done in order to stop the crisis?
5. Are we all responsible for the crisis?
6. The Great Depression coincided with the uprise of fascism? Was it just a coincident?
7. What is awaiting the global trade market, in your opinion?
8. Will economic crises become more severe in future?
9. Will crises change our way of living in future?
10. Do you think that economic crises will be more frequent in future?

ID: 170
Topic: What is Human Personality?
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What forms our personality: our genes or the environment where we grow up?
2. Do you think you can change a major characteristic of your personality if you make an effort?
3. What would you like to change in your personality?
4. Do you think it’s possible to change any aspect of your personality?
5. What personal traits do you consider to be important in a good friend/a boss/a partner?
6. What personal traits can a person obtain because of a troubled childhood?
7. Does our nationality determine the way we think and act?
8. Does changing our appearance (hairstyle, clothes, etc.) influence our personality as well?
9. Are you happy with your personality? Would you like to be different?
10. Do you think your personality suited to your job?

ID: 171
Topic: Introverts and Extraverts
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Are introversion and extraversion inherited qualities?
2. What is good and what is bad about being an introvert?
3. What are the advantages and disadvantages of being an extravert?
4. Can we get more introverted or extraverted if we want?
5. What are the qualities that determine an introvert?
6. What are the qualities that determine an extravert?
7. Is it easy for an introvert to find his place in society?
8. What are the challenges introverts face when interacting with society and how do they meet them?  9. What are the challenges extraverts face when interacting with society?
10. What professions are good for introverts and for extraverts?

ID: 172
Topic: Making a Career
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What’s a career, in your opinion?
2. What do you think of career-oriented people?
3. Do you consider a successful career only the one that ends at the very top of a career ladder?
4. Do you think it is good to work in one institution or one company for the rest of your professional life?
5. What do you think of ambitious people?
6. What skills can help a person to make a good career?
7. Do you think that it is good to compete with your workmate if it gives you a chance to make a good career?
8. Do you think that having a good education doesn`t matter much for making a good career?
9. Is it possible to have a good balance between career and family life?
10. May a businessman be a procrastinator?

ID: 173
Topic: The Problem of Choice
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What do you understand by the problem of choice?
2. How much does this problem influence people’s life?
3. Is it easy or difficult for you to choose?
4. Is it a good idea to think a lot before making a choice?
5. What are advantages and disadvantages of having an opportunity to choose?
6. What helps us to make the right choice?
7. What distracts us from making the right choice?
8. What influences our choice?
9. Do you think there is no fate but we choose our fate ourselves?
10. What would our life be if there was no choice at all?

ID: 174
Topic: Psychology in our Life
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do we need to discuss our personal problems with somebody?
2. What is good and what is bad in asking for a piece of advice in difficult life situations?
3. If we choose to discuss our personal problems with somebody, whom should we prefer: a professional, a good friend, or just a stranger?
4. What is more effective: psychoanalysis or the search for truth?
5. Can church substitute a psychologist?
6. Can the “help” of a psychologist deteriorate your situation?
7. How can someone tell a good psychologist from a bad one?
8. Why do Americans visit psychoanalytics while Russians almost never do it?
9. Do you think that psychologists can resolve their own personal problems?
10. Should we change our life or should we patiently adjust ourselves to circumstances?

ID: 175
Topic: Work and Motivation
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What do you work for?
2. Is it possible to be happy at your work, or is happiness possible only after your work is done?
3. What is work for you first of all: the movement to results or a joy of the process itself?
4. Which is better: to build your own structure (hierarchy) to head it, or enter a hierarchy which has already been built by somebody else to make career in it?
5. Do you prefer to work in collective; or is it more comfortable for you to work alone?
6. Imagine you can work two hours a day as a simple worker. Would you take that opportunity?
7. What is your way of acting: adjusting yourself to work or looking for work which is appropriate for you?
8. Is it good to be a workaholic?
9. What is more important for you: money or freedom?
10. If your work is not interesting for you, can you be completely satisfied with your life?

ID: 176
Topic: Feelings That Drive us Crazy
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you get annoyed when other people display bad manners?
2. Do you get annoyed when someone cuts in front of you when you are waiting in line?
3. Do you get angry when politicians make promises they can't keep?
4. Do you get annoyed when you watch the news on TV and see all the terrible things happening in the world?
5. Does it annoy you when shop assistants try to sell you things you don't need?
6. Does it annoy you when someone knows everything better than you and says so?
7. Does it drive you crazy to always see the same faces and read about the same celebrities in the gossip columns?
8. Does it drive you crazy when waiters ignore you?
9. Does it upset or annoy you when a beggar asks you for money?
10. Does it upset you when have to say "No" when someone asks you for help?

ID: 177
Topic: Play is More than Fun
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you think it`s OK for adults to play games?
2. Is it fine for adults to play computer games in their free time?
3. Do children today have enough play time?
4. How important is playtime for children?
5. What are the best types of games for children to play?
6. What is the right balance between play and study?
7. How do you think play affects a person’s character?
8. What skills do you think kids learn through playing?
9. Do you believe that kids that play action computer games containing the scenes of violence become more aggressive than those ones who don`t?
10. What type of games is the most useful or beneficial one for child’s development?

ID: 178
Topic: Reasons for our Fears
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Why do people become scared?
2. Why are people afraid of flying?
3. Why are people afraid of the dark?
4. Do you think young children should be allowed to watch horror movies?
5. Why are people afraid of certain insects or animals?
6. Do you think that the only reason for the “language barrier” is the fear of speaking with foreigners?
7. Why are people afraid of going to the dentist?
8. Would you take part in a show where you can win money after passing through some scary competitions?
9. Do you believe people can be cured of phobias by hypnosis?
10. What is the scariest thing for mankind, in your opinion?

ID: 179
Topic: Is Apocalypse Waiting for us?
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What are your opinions regarding people who claim about the awaiting Apocalypse and their followers?
2. Imagine that the world is really going to end in the next few months. What will be your plans for your last weeks on earth?
3. If the world is really going to end this year: how do you think it will happen?
4. Do you think that the human race will survive forever or will we become extinct some day?
5. Will humans outlast the Earth?
6. If we die out, what do you think will be the cause of our extinction?
7. Do you believe in the second coming of Christ or any similar theories?
8. Do you think that mankind will kill itself or there is a global cataclysm that is waiting for us in future?
9. Do you think it`s possible to be prepared for the Apocalypse?
10. How would you act if a “zombie” Apocalypse started on earth?

ID: 180
Topic: Self-presentation
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do people need to be unique?
2. What is more important: form or content?
3. Is modesty a virtue?
4. Is it necessary to be clever, rich or beautiful, being properly dressed?
5. When you meet new people, do you show WHAT you are or WHO you are?
6. Do you show your social status, your personal status or your games and your interests?
7. Is it natural and sufficient for you to be an employee?
8. Nonverbal communication: what is important for us in it?
9. Voice, diction, manners: how can we improve them?
10. How can we become not afraid of people and begin to communicate?

ID: 181
Topic: What is a Habit?
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What is a habit?
2. How do habits appear?
3. Is it possible to get new good habits? What is necessary to do for it?
4. Is it possible to get rid of a bad habit? What is necessary to do for it?
5. Should we change our habits if our friends/family members don't like them?
6. Should we accept habits of our friends/family members if we don't like them?
7. Is it possible to live without habits? Why?
8. What makes people gamble?
9. Is overworking a bad habit?
10. Is always being late a bad habit?

ID: 182
Topic: How to Become a Master?
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you want to be a master?
2. What is the main difference between a master and a slave, in your opinion?
3. The master is the one who is afraid of nothing. Can we hide our fears?
4. Is fake boldness typical for real masters or should we choose other strategies?
5. Can someone who doesn't feel like a real master look like a real one?
6. Will ever real master use somebody else's authority (diploma, social position, etc.)?
7. Professionalism or self-presentation, what is more important?
8. Is it a good idea to say all what we think, or should we control our speech?
9. Can you be a master to others if you are not a master to yourself?
10. Will ever a master conform to slaves?

ID: 183
Topic: Dealing with New Things
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you think about new ideas positively?
2. Do you readily accept and support new things?
3. How do you pick up new topics, ideas?
4. How creative are you?
5. What is your own way of understanding and dealing with new subjects, tasks, etc.?
6. Do you prefer to have the whole picture right from the beginning or to break topic down into small parts?
7. Is it difficult for you to implement (realize) new ideas?
8. How would you define the key contributors to the process of creation of ideas?
9. What is good and what is bad about following new trends?
10. Is it good to be conservative?

ID: 184
Topic: Feelings. Are they Real?
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you find it easy to hide your feelings?
2. Do we need to hide our feelings?
3. Do you respect other people`s feelings?
4. Are you afraid of strong feelings - love, affection, hatred, anger, jealousy, despair?
5. Do you agree with the statement that men and women are equally emotional creatures?
6. Are you against or for emotions?
7. Do you think that logic and cold heart is a good alternative to emotions?
8. What are the good and bad sides of being emotional?
9. Do you think it`s good to be emotional with people?
10. Is it a good idea to allow your actions to be inspired by your emotions?

ID: 185
Topic: Changes in your Life
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you hate or do you like changes?
2. What is good and what is bad about changes?
3. Are you afraid of changes?
4. What kind of changes does really matter?
5. Will you take a risk of changing everything?
6. What is the best way of managing changes?
7. Do you agree that many people don`t succeed in life because they are afraid of changes?
8. Do you think it`s good to constantly change something in your appearance, the way your life?
9. Can changes ruin a life?
10. Do you think everyone should always look at changes happening to our society in a positive way or take them as they are?

ID: 186
Topic: Cheating in our Life
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What is your definition of cheating?
2. Why do you think people cheat?
3. Is it OK to cheat a little to become successful at studies/work/etc.?
4. If you had a chance to cheat now, would you take it?
5. In what situations do people usually cheat?
6. Do you think if people stopped cheating the world would be a better place?
7. What do you think of people who cheat in their relationships?
8. Can cheating in relationships help spouses to understand whether they love each other or not?
9. What do you think can be done to prevent cheating?
10. Is it a good thing to stop those people who are cheating?

ID: 187
Topic: Divorces. Broken Happiness
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What are the main causes for people getting divorced?
2. Why are divorce rates increasing around the world?
3. Why do you think the number of divorces is higher in some countries than in others?
4. Should all married couples always plan for divorce?
5. Who should get the children in a divorce?
6. What effect does divorce have on children?
7. How should people protect themselves financially during divorce?
8. Do you think a person should always ask a professional for help in legal issues in case of divorce?
9. Do you think divorce is becoming a big business nowadays?
10. Would you still be friends with someone after you divorced him/her (or he/she divorced you)?

ID: 188
Topic: Belief in Church
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Should people decide what to believe on their own or should there be people who will make them choose what to believe?
2. Can one belong to two different churches simultaneously?
3. Should anyone ever doubt his/her religion?
4. If our religion tells us one thing and our conscience another, which should we follow?
5. Do we need mediators between us and God?
6. Can we find the right way to faith ourselves?
7. Do you believe in The Ten Commandments?
8. Should religions be responsible for crimes believers or so-called “believers” have committed?
9. What is the difference between religions and sects?
10. Do you agree that terrorists must not use religion as a weapon?

ID: 189
Topic: Great Inventions
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What springs to your mind when you hear the word “invention”?
2. What are the best and the most useful inventions of mankind in the 20th and 21st centuries?
3. How did the invention of television change people's life?
4. Do you think people can live without their mobile phones or is it now an important part of our daily life?
5. Do you think that radio has been of the greatest inventions of our era?
6. Have computers changed our life forever or it`s the same but has only become more convenient?
7. Do you believe that one day people will live on the moon and on other planets?
8. Do you think that human workers will be replaced by robots one day?
9. Will scientists be able to develop such kind of artificial intelligence that will outsmart humans in future?
10. What inventions can destroy mankind in future?

ID: 190
Topic: Space Exploration
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What, in your opinion, are the main reasons for space exploration?
2. Do you think that competition between different nations in the field space exploration can cause another global conflict in future?
3. What are the good and bad sides of space exploration?
4. Has space exploration lead to a technological leap, in your opinion?
5. Do you think that humankind is exploring space just because of people`s natural curiosity?
6. Do you think that space tourism will become as common as travelling to sea resorts in future?
7. Do you think that space exploration programs should be financed by private organizations only?
8. Would you take a chance to travel to another planet if you were offered such opportunity?
9. Do you think that space exploration have given us a lot of modern conveniences in our life?
10. Do you think that mankind will move to another planet in future?

ID: 191
Topic: Revolution of Evolution
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What springs to mind when you hear the word “evolution”?
2. Do you believe the story of evolution as told in religious books?
3. Why is Darwin’s Theory of Evolution discarded by so many religions?
4. Do you believe in Darwin’s Theory of Evolution and why?
5. How do you think the world got here?
6. Do you believe that our appearance on this planet was the result of natural selection?
7. How did the very first life form appeared and what did it look like?
8. Do you believe in the idea that all life forms were brought to our planet by aliens?
9. Could life be brought to our planet by a comet/an asteroid?
10. Do you think that evolution is still going on?

ID: 192
Topic: National Identity
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Is nationality of a person important?
2. To what extend does it determine a person’s personality?
3. Do you consider some traits of your personality typical for most people of your nationality?
4. Are you proud for your nationality, or you are a cosmopolitan?
5. Can patriotism transform to xenophobia?
6. How would you describe the national character of the citizens of your country?
7. Are some stereotypes about your nation based on truth?
8. What factors affect a people’s national character?
9. Do you think that bilingualism makes people many-sided?
10. Does studying a foreign language and culture affect one`s personality?

ID: 193
Topic: Imports versus Domestic
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you think that people like foreign products more than the ones produced by local manufacturers?
2. Do you think that Western products have a much higher quality or the quality of a product depends on other factors as well?
3. Do you think people should buy more products of local manufacturers in order to support them as well as the economy of the state more?
4. Do you think that people buy certain products made by some foreign brands more often not because of their high quality or reasonable price but just because they are better advertised?
5. Do you think that there are certain stereotypes that are common among customers that make them buy products of certain manufacturers?
6. Do you think it`s a good idea for the government to impose restrictions on the amount of goods imported from abroad in order to support local manufacturers?
7. What are the ways of making local products more attractive for customers, in your opinion?
8. Do you think that sanctions imposed by certain countries on other ones are just a political tool?
9. Do you think that trade wars are initiated to win business competition?
10. Do you think trade wars will become a common thing in future?

ID: 194
Topic: Should Cannabis Be Legalized?
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Is legalization a good idea?
2. Is marijuana a gateway drug? (i.e. is it the first step to trying harder drugs such as cocaine and heroin?)
3. Is marijuana better/worse than alcohol/cigarettes?
4. Should it be a priority for governments?
5. If the government should legalize, then how much control should there be versus having a free market?
6. What are your thoughts on cannabis cure potentials?
7. Should employers be able to hire on the basis if a person smokes marihuana (as long as it does not affect his work performance)?
8. Should marijuana be legalized medicinally or recreationally?
9. How is outlawing marijuana different from alcohol prohibition?
10. What are the pros and cons of legalizing marijuana?

ID: 195
Topic: Genetic Engineering
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you think Genetically Modified (GM) food is the future?
2. What are the pros and cons of humankind transferring to GM food?
3. Why, in your opinion, GM products can be dangerous for our health?
4. Do you usually avoid buying products containing with “GM” sign on them or it doesn`t bother you much?
5. Do you think that GM products can harm our genetics?
6. How do you feel about genetic experiments on animals: is it a good or a bad idea?
7. Do you think it`s fine to breed genetically modified animals?
8. Do you think that genetic engineering can become a weapon of an “evil mind”?
9. Do you think it would be a good idea to Genetically Engineer humans?
10. Do you think humankind won`t survive without genetic engineering in future?

ID: 196
Topic: Drugs. Legal and Illegal Ones
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What comes to mind when you hear the word “drugs”?
2. Why are some drugs more addicting than others?
3. Many politicians have used cannabis. What do you think about this?
4. Do you think that drug addiction leads people into crime?
5. What punishment do you think drug dealers should get?
6. Is taking illegal drugs a disease or a crime?
7. Why do people get into hard drugs like heroin, in your opinion?
8. Should pregnant women be arrested for child abuse if they use drugs when they are pregnant which may affect the baby?
9. Do you think that marijuana should be legal for medical uses with a prescription from a doctor?
10. Why do you think people take drugs?

ID: 197
Topic: There`s the Sound of the Police
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you think we really need the police as a law-enforcement body?
2. Do you think that sometimes the government uses the police as a manipulation tool?
3. Do you believe that the police can always help you when you are in trouble?
4. Do the police in your country do a good job of upholding the law and protecting citizens?
5. How do the police in your country compare to other country’s police forces?
6. Do cops have too much power?
7. Do they abuse their authority?
8. If you were in charge of the police force in your country what changes would you make?
9. Should policemen be armed?
10. What do you think would happen if the police went on strike for 24 hours?

ID: 198
Topic:  The Issues of Adoption
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What are the good and bad sides of adoption?
2. Do you think that adopted child can really become close with his foster parents?
3. Should an adopted child have the same legal right as a non-adopted child?
4. What problems do you think there might be with adoption?
5. What checks should adoption agencies conduct on prospective parents?
6. Should same-sex couples or single people be allowed to adopt?
7. Is it better to adopt a baby or an older child?
8. When should you tell a child he/she is adopted?
9. Should people adopt children from the same race?
10. Would you prefer to adopt a child from your own country or a very poor country?

ID: 199
Topic: Globalization. Does it Unite us?
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What images spring to mind when you hear the word “globalization”?
2. What are the good and bad things about globalization?
3. Do you think it’s possible to ignore globalization?
4. How has globalization affected your life?
5. Is globalization good for the world?
6. Does globalization unite us?
7. What will globalization look like fifty years from now?
8. Do you think globalization will make us all the same in the future?
9. Which countries do you think like or hate globalization most?
10. What concept do you think will come after globalization?

ID: 200
Topic: Subcultures in our Life
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. How can you distinguish a subculture?
2. Where is the edge between hobbies and subcultures?
3. How do subcultures influence a person`s lifestyle?
4. Why do members of subcultures invent their own style?
5. Do you think its members really have to accept the style of a subculture?
6. Why has music led to the creation of so many subcultures?
7. Why are subcultures so popular among the youth, especially teenagers?
8. Would you like your own kid to join some?
9. Should some of the subcultures be restricted?
10. Do you think there are any destructive subcultures?