ID: 201
Topic: Cars and Driving
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What are the advantages and disadvantages of owning a car?
2. Are men better drivers than women? Are women better drivers than men?
3. Do you think the age for driving should be raised or lowered?
4. What are the advantages and disadvantages of having a GPS?
5. Does the type of car a person drives tell us about the person who drives it?
6. What are the advantages and disadvantages of air conditioning?
7. Do you think that the style of driving depends on person`s character?
8. Do you think there are too many cars in the streets nowadays?
9. Do you think that punishment for violating traffic rules should be more stringent?
10. What would our live be like without cars? Will it better or worse?

ID: 202
Topic: Secrets
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. If your friend was doing something dangerous or illegal would you tell his parents or his teacher about it?
2. If you found your sister's or brother's diary, would you read it or would you respect their privacy?
3. When you meet someone new, are there some things that you want to keep secret or private?
4. Are you concerned about Internet privacy?
5. What do you think about foreign countries asking you for your fingerprints when you live there?
6. When applying for a job is it OK for a company to ask you about your religion, marital status, sexual orientation or narcotic use?
7. If you were going to marry someone, but had a family secret they should know before you get married would you tell them?
8. If you won a lot of money, would you tell your family?
9. Do you think you should keep something in secret till you die if you have promised another person to do so?
10. What would our life be without secrets?

ID: 203
Topic: Gay Community v.1
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1) Is being gay more difficult in some countries than others?
2) In your opinion, can a gay be a religious person?
3) What main problems do gays have in the military?
4) In what ways does the gay community try to tackle homophobia? Are they being successful?
5) Do you think being lesbian is viewed as being worse, the same or better than being gay in our society?
6) Could you name any famous lesbian through history?
7) Do you believe gays and heterosexuals have the same rights? Do they have equal duties?
8) What's your opinion on gay marriage?
9) What do you think of adoption by gay couples?
10) Do you think homosexual families can bring up children as well as straight families? If not, why?
11) What stereotypes do you know about gays?

ID: 204
Topic: Gay Community v.2
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1) What problems do you think someone goes through when they find out they are gay?
2) Do you think they should try to change?
3) In your opinion, should they say they are gay?
4) What do you think your parents' reaction would be if you told them you are gay?
5) Do you think one of them would take it better / worse?
6) Do you think their first reaction would persist or would it change?
7) How about your best friend's reaction?
8) How would you react if one of your children told you they're gay?
9) What are the main problems gays have to face at college?
10) Is it easier for a gay to live in a village or in a city?

ID: 205
Topic: Gay Community v.3
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1) About how many of them would you say are not offensive?
2) How is it being gay in your country?
3) Do you know anyone who is gay?
4) How about any celebrities?
5) Or any historical figure?
6) Are there any gay characters on a current TV series?
7) Could you tell us about them?
8) What's the meaning of "homophobia"?
9) In your view, is there homophobia in our society? If not, why?
10) Do you believe that the gay community is being discriminated against in any way?
11) If so, why do you think there is such discrimination?

ID: 206
Topic: Fears v.1
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1) Are there any parts of the city where you live which you are afraid to visit after dark? Where?
2) Are there certain weather conditions that scare people? What are they? Why do people become scared?
3) Are you afraid of flying?
4) Are you afraid of ghosts?
5) Are you afraid of giving a speech in public?
6) Are you afraid of going to the dentist?
7) Are you afraid of heights?
8) Are you afraid of the dark?
9) Are you afraid of getting old? Why?

ID: 207
Topic: Fears v.2
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1) Are there any numbers that people are afraid of in your culture?
2) Were you afraid of the dark as a child?
3) What animal do you think is the most scary?
4) What is the scariest movie you have ever seen?
5) What is your biggest fear in life? Are you afraid that it might come true?
6) Do you believe people can be cured of phobias by hypnosis?
7) Are you afraid of speaking English?
8) A foreign language?
9) In front of many people?
10) At official functions?

ID: 208
Topic: Internet and Computers
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1) What are two disadvantages of using smartphones and tablets?
2) What do you think about Cybercafes? Are they still useful?
3) Do you like a job in which you have to use computers?
4) Do you spend too much time online?
5) Does your mother of father know how to use a computer?
6) Do computers make life easier?
7) What websites do you visit in a regular basis?
8) What do you think about the Apple?
9) What are some advantages of using social networks?
10) Do you visit English websites?

ID: 209
Topic: Volunteer work
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1) Why do people volunteer?
2) Would you like to work as a volunteer?
3) Have you ever done any volunteer work?
4) Is volunteering worth the time it takes?
5) Why would you enjoy volunteering?
6) Do you know anyone who has done volunteer work?
7) Have you ever benefitted by someone's volunteer work?
8) What benefits do you get personally by volunteering?
9) Can you list some reasons why people volunteer?
10) What types of volunteer work would be unpleasant for you?

ID: 210
Topic: Friends v.1
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1) Are you good at making friends?
2) Can you remember your first friend?
3) What’s the best age for making friends?
4) How long has your strongest friendship lasted?
5) How often do you contact with your long-distance friends?
6) How difficult is it to maintain a friendship?
7) What can break a good relationship?
8) Is it a good idea to go on holiday with a friend?
9) What do you think about lending/borrowing money to/from a friend?
10) Would it be difficult if your friend was your boss or subordinate?

ID: 211
Topic: Health v.1
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1) How conscious are you about your health?
2) What things might damage your health?
3) Should you give up something to protect your health?
4) What do you do to stay healthy?
5) Do you ever read articles or watch TV programmes about health?
6) Do you usually take medicine when you are sick?
7) Do you usually go to a doctor when you get a cold?
8) How often do you have a health check?
9) What are your experiences of hospitals?
10) Have you ever been to a hospital in another country?

ID: 212
Topic: Health v.2
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1) How could hospitals be made better places to visit and stay in?
2) Which is better: private and public health care?
3) What do you think about alternative medicine?
4) Who is more responsible for your health: you or the government?
5) Do you normally go one doctor in particular or any available doctor?
6) What disease frightens you the most? Why?
7) What do you do to stay healthy?

ID: 213
Topic: Time
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1) Do you have a lot of free time?
2) "Time is money". Do you agree or disagree?
3) What's your perception of time now?
4) Do you show up early or late for work/university/meeting with friends?
5) Are you a "night owl" or an "early bird"?
6) Do you use any time management apps to structure your day/week?
7) Do you have some tips on how to organize your day for maximum productivity?
8) What Is procrastination? Why we do it and how to stop it)
9) What would you do if you had a few extra hours in a day?
10) Does time go by slowly or quickly for you? What does this depend on?
11) What is your ideal working schedule?
12) Have you ever had some situations when procrastination was good for you?

ID: 214
Topic: Journalism
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you think journalism is different in different countries around the world?
2. What do you think of journalists who report in war zones?
3. What positive and negative sides does journalism have?
4. Do you think people can make a lot of money from journalism?
5. Do you think investigative journalism is interesting?
6. How important is journalism in today’s world?
7. What do you think of the paparazzi - are they doing a good job stalking celebrities?
8. Do you think the Internet can make us all journalists?
9. What do you think world leaders and government s think of journalism?
10. Does the government control journalism in your country?

ID: 215
Topic: Men and Women
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Why do we say men are from Mars and women are from Venus?
2. Why men and women are different when it comes to communicating with each other?
3. Why relationships became so complicated in the modern world?
4. How can women make men`s life different and vice versa?
5. Why women are more verbal than men?
6. How can you describe the term “gender politics”?
7. Do you think that gender inequality does exist in modern world?
8. Do you agree with the idea that women need to be given more rights and opportunities in our society?
9. Do you think that sexual harassment is a big issue in modern society?
10. Do you stick to a conservative point of view in terms of the distribution of social roles of men and women or do you approach this issue in a different way?

ID: 216
Topic: Hobbies and Interests
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. How can the word “hobby” be described?
2. Is doing extreme sports a good kind of hobby?
3. Can a person become a real professional in something he is doing as a hobby?
4. Do you agree that hobbies help people to become a better rounded person?
5. Which hobbies do you think are the most difficult?
6. Can some hobbies be disruptive for your personality?
7. Should parents let their children choose pastime activities for themselves or should they encourage them to do things that they want them to do?
8. Should each person have a hobby?
9. Is it OK for a grown-up to have some kind of hobby which is usually associated with the way children spend their free time?
10. What would your life be without any hobby?

ID: 217
Topic: Responsibility
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What is responsibility in your opinion?
2. What should a responsible friend/spouse/parent/sibling/grandparent be like?
3. What are the responsibilities of parents?
4. How should kids be raised so that they become responsible and not live off their parents?
5. Why are some people irresponsible?
6. How can we fight procrastination?
7. Are we responsible for our elderly parents?
8. 18 is now very often considered the age of legal adulthood. Do you think this is an appropriate age to be considered an adult?
9. Should all the people be socially responsible in any situations?
10. Is social responsibility important for corporations? Should companies think about more than just the “bottom line”?

ID: 218
Topic: Morality, Empathy and Altruism
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What qualities does a high-minded person have?
2. Do we need religion to be people of good morals?
3. Are we obliged to religion for the existence of morality?
4. Is it necessary to create universal moral values? If so, what should they be like?
5. Should people all over the world reach common ground in answers to the most important questions of human life?
6. How do we understand what is good and what is bad?
7. Are our moral values based on facts about human and animal well-being&
8. Can science (neurology, psychology) answer some general moral questions (e. g., what is good and what is bad?)?
9. Should we always follow our principles?
10. Is it easy to be an altruist?

ID: 219
Topic: Immortality. A Myth or Near Future?
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Why are so many people afraid of death, when it is unavoidable?
2. What do you think lies beyond the death?
3. Do you believe in reincarnation?
4. If you could re-live your life, what would you change?
5. Do you believe some day we could live forever?
6. How living immortally differs from living as a mortal person?
7. Is immortality worse than death?
8. Do we cheat Mother Nature by our attempts to prolong our lives?
9. What are the implications of people living longer?
10. Would you like to have your body frozen, so that you could be thawed out and brought back to life sometime in the future?