ID: 51
Topic: Charisma & Leadership
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What is charisma for you?
2. What is good and what is bad in the role of a leader?
3. Do you think charisma can be developed?
4. What does the word “leadership” mean to you?
5. Do you think being a leader is genetic or do you think that it is something that can be learnt?
6. Do you see yourself as a leader?
7. What qualities does a leader need to have?
8. Do you think to be a good leader you need to have integrity?
9. Are all the politicians born to be leaders?
10. Do you think that a person from the crowd can lead big masses of people?

ID: 52
Topic: The Art of Acting
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you think men or women are better at acting?
2. Do you think today’s actors are better than those from 30, 40 or 50 years ago?
3. Do you think it’s strange that most actors are beautiful or handsome?
4. Do you think anyone can become an actor?
5. What are the advantages and disadvantages of the profession of an actor?
6. Do you think that a person who wants to become an actor really needs to be gifted or this is just a skill that can be learnt?
7. Can fame and popularity spoil an actor?
8. Is it good acting that makes films be good?
9. Do you think there are good actors in your country?
10. Will the art of acting live through years?

ID: 53
Topic: Marriage
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Would you marry someone of another nationality?
2. Would you marry someone who is much older/younger than you?
3. Do you agree with the statement that love doesn`t know any limits?
4. What are the disadvantages and disadvantages of married life?
5. Do you agree with the statement that all the matches are made in heaven?
6. Do you think that marriage of convenience is a good thing or not?
7. Do you believe that having a permanent love between two people who are living in two different countries is possible?
8. Do you think when people get married it is really until death?
9. What do you think is the most important ingredient in a good marriage?
10. Do you think that a husband should earn more money than his wife?

ID: 54
Topic: Dating
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. How long does it take for dating to become a relationship?
2. Do you think that it is fine to have sex on the first date?
3. Should a man pay for a lady that he is dating with or should each one pay for himself/herself after a date?
4. Do you think that a “blind” date is a good thing?
5. Do you think it is possible to find a good match on a dating web-site?
6. Do you think you should tell users of dating web-sites about yourself everything they want to know about you or not?
7. Is it fine to try to produce a better impression of yourself on the first date?
8. Are there any topics that should be avoided on the first date?
9. Do you think that zodiac signs compatibility really matters when searching for a good match?
10. Do you think that both partners should have equal social and financial status in order to become a good match?

ID: 55
Topic: Happiness
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. How can you describe happiness?
2. What is happiness related to or what does it depend on?
3. Do you think the same things can make people happy at different ages?
4. Is it true that only simple things make one happy?
5. Is there a big gap between being happy and unhappy?
6. Can you be happy when somebody close to you is not?
7. Can happiness be a permanent feeling?
8. Why some people are happy all the time and others very rarely?
9. Do you think that person`s happiness depend on the environment or it is just a matter of your inner harmony?
10. Can you live without feelings at all?

ID: 56
Topic: Laughter
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What definition would you give for laughter?
2. How important is laughter?
3. When is laughter wrong or ill-advised?
4. What do you think when you hear the sound of laughter?
5. Is laughter ‘the best medicine’?
6. Have you ever laughed at something you shouldn’t have – something very serious?
7. What do you think of canned laughter on the television?
8. Why do you think some people laugh more than others?
9. What social functions does laughter have?
10. Do men and women laugh about different things?

ID: 57
Topic: Depression
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Is depression a mental illness?
2. Do children get depression?
3. Why are women more likely to get depression?
4. Do you think that most people with depression commit suicide?
5. Will someone who has had depression get it again?
6. What things can be done to overcome depression?
7. What are the common things that cause depression in men and women?
8. Can depression be treated?
9. Do you think antidepressants are OK?
10. Do you think you should tell you relatives that you are in the state of depression?

ID: 58
Topic: Anger
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What causes anger?
2. What are various ways people respond to anger?
3. Can anger be ever justified?
4. Do you think that anger should be controlled in any kind of situation?
5. Do you think men and women show their anger differently?
6. What are the physical effects of getting angry?
7. Is getting angry an effective way of dealing with problems?
8. What are the ways to control anger?
9. Do you think one should always suppress his negative emotions when being in public?
10. Will our life be more peaceful without people being angry at each other?

ID: 59
Topic: Dreams
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you think our dreams shape our personality?
2. Do you think your dreams are shaped by the society you live in?
3. If you were able to put five people in a room that you would like to be like, who would that be and why?
4. What do you think is needed for a balanced life?
5. What would your dream life be like?
6. Can any goal be achieved if there is a will?
7. Are there good or bad dreams?
8. Do you agree with the statement that “the end justifies the means”?
9. Do you think that every person should have a life dream in order to be successful?
10. Do you think that some dreams can`t be achieved because of a person lacking some traits of character or personal qualities?

ID: 60
Topic: Creativity
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What is creativity?
2. Do you agree with the idea that every person is creative in some way?
3. Is creativity a good thing?
4. Are people born creative or creativity can be developed?
5. How do early exposure to diverse stimuli and his involvement in creative activities affect a child's future creativity?
6. Does the education system in your country encourage creativity?
7. Can you think of devices that would make people's life easier?
8. What are some creative ways to entertain children?
9. Is taking a risk part of creativity?
10. Do all the jobs really require a person to be creative in some way?

ID: 61
Topic: Unemployment
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Is unemployment a great problem where you live now?
2. What do you think the role of the government is in regulating the unemployment situation in this country?
3. How should the government help people who have lost their jobs?
4. Describe an employee whom the employer will never fire.
5. When is the best time for a person to start looking for a job?
6. Is it better to start job hunting while you are still studying and try to combine your studies with work? 7. Is it good to change jobs constantly or try to have one long-term position?
8. Do you think that at universities students get enough knowledge and practice to have no difficulties when starting to work for some company?
9. What should young people do to have enough qualification after graduation?
10. What are the most efficient ways to look for a job?

ID: 62
Topic: Retirement
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you approve all the changes made by the government to the pension reform? What kind of changes do you disapprove?
2. Do you think that the pension legislation should be changed in your country?
3. Do you think that the government in your country really takes care of the pensioners?
4. What is the ideal age for retirement in your opinion?
5. What are the advantages and disadvantages of being a pensioner?
6. Do you agree that it is a good time to start living for yourself after your retirement?
7. Do you think that pensioners are discriminated?
8. Would you be working till the end of your life or retire as early as possible? Why?
9. Do you think that pensioners do not play an active role in modern society?
10. Do you think that there will be no pensioners in future?

ID: 63
Topic: Time Management
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What's time management for you?
2. Do you think it's really useful and needed?
3. What are the good and bad sides of time management in your opinion?
4. What are the drawbacks of losing time on waiting for somebody?
5. Do you think being late depends on the person or on the situation?
6. Do you need that time management can be applied in your everyday life?
7. Do you think that setting long-term goals is good from the time management view-point?
8. Is it good to plan everything in advance or is it better to plan everything on the go?
9. Is delegating duties a good way of time management?
10. What are the ways to fight procrastination to get things done in time?

ID: 64
Topic: Pride
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What is pride?
2. When can pride be dangerous?
3. Is pride in oneself a sin?
4. What are the advantages and disadvantages of pride?
5. Do you agree that sometimes pride prevents people from recognizing their mistakes?
6. Do people sometimes have to swallow their pride?
7. Should a citizen be always proud of his country no matter how bad things are within the country?
8. Should a person be proud of his material values?
9. Does pride make a person more arrogant?
10. Can pride make a person more confident in himself?

ID: 65
Topic: Human Cloning
Level: ADVANCED
Questions:
1. What are the possible applications of reproductive human cloning?
2. What are the possible dangers of it?
3. Could cloning be used for those couples that can`t have children by medical reasons?
4. What are the possible advantages and disadvantages of reproductive human cloning?
5. Could cloning be used for individuals who want to create a clone of themselves instead of having child?
6. What are the possible advantages and disadvantages of such approach to cloning?
7. Would human “clone” be a “copy” of a person or a unique individual?
8. Should clones be treated by society in the same way as people born by parents or there should be some significant differences?
9. Should human cloning be banned or prohibited?
10. What could be the most interesting and exciting applications of human cloning?

ID: 66
Topic: Appearance
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What is more important: good clothes or good hairstyle?
2. How important is a person`s appearance?
3. Are personal traits more important than appearance?
4. Do you think the expression “Appearances are deceptive” is true? Why?
5. Is it rude to tell someone that they need to improve their appearance?
6. How is people`s style today different from 20 years ago?
7. Is appearance especially important in politics or show business?
8. Does society push women to spend more time on their appearance than men do?
9. Are people obsessed with the appearance today?
10. Is it 	OK for teenagers to experiment with their appearance?

ID: 67
Topic: Partnership and Teamwork
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. How do you understand the meaning of the word “partnership”?
2. Do you think personal partnership should be treated same as work or business partnership?
3. What is necessary for successful business partnership?
4. What should an ideal business partner be like?
5. Should partners have different strengths and weaknesses?
6. How can you understand that a person will be a bad partner?
7. What are the benefits of working in the team?
8. Should children be taught about team work before they go to college/university?
9. What can employees learn from working in a team?
10. Can people learn to respect the ideas and opinions of others even though they may be different from their ones when working in a team?

ID: 68
Topic: Feminism
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What is feminism?
2. Why don`t people use a term like “masculinism”?
3. Are people in your country totally fair and equal to women and men?
4. Do you think feminism sometimes has an unfair image?
5. What important things should men know about feminism?
6. Why is there a stereotype of feminists hating men?
7. Do you think feminist movements are needed in this century?
8. What do you think feminists mean by “reproductive freedom”?
9. What is your opinion of “sexual objectification” – portraying women (or men) as objects of sexual desire?
10. What is the biggest worldwide problem that women are facing nowadays?

ID: 69
Topic: Respect and Tolerance
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What qualities should a person have to earn your respect?
2. Should we respect a person regardless of his/her age, race, nationality, religion and disorders?
3. Should we respect all people regardless of their style and appearance?
4. Who shouldn’t we respect?
5. Why are seniors less respected in developed countries than in developing ones? Should we respect a person just because of his/her age?
6. Is tolerance the way we show respect for other people?
7. Do you agree that discrimination is a serious problem of modern society?
8. Who suffers from discrimination most of all?
9. Is it sometimes hard to be tolerant?
10. When does tolerance become an obsession?

ID: 70
Topic: Medicine and Healthcare
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Why do some people choose the profession of a nurse, not a doctor?
2. What do you think is the hardest thing in working as a doctor?
3. What are the advantages and disadvantages of working in healthcare system?
4. What is a good and a bad doctor? How can you define that a doctor is good?
5. Do you think that medical specialists are underpaid in your country?
6. Do you believe in alternative methods of treatment?
7. What are the main problems of healthcare system in your country? What are the most important reforms we need to make in healthcare?
8. Do you think that private hospitals are better than public ones in your country?
9. Do you know that Jehovah’s Witnesses consider blood transfusion to be a sin, and sometimes this has led to death of cult members? Why do you think they have such a strange rule?
10. People are living longer and longer thanks to medicine. How long would you like to live? How about forever?

ID: 71
Topic: Pets
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. There are two types of people: some like cats, and others like dogs. What type of person are you?
2. What kinds of pets are best friends of humans? Dogs, cats, parrots? Other animals?
3. Do you think it is easy to take care of pets?
4. How do pets influence our life?
5. Does taking care of animals teach us how to take care of people?
6. What do you think about people who keep exotic pets in their houses?
7. How do you think, how much of our words and actions do our pets understand?
8. Do you think that our pets often manipulate us?
9. Should we sometimes feed a cat or a dog some table food, or it should be strictly prohibited?
10. How do you think, what should be done to solve the problem of homeless animals?

ID: 72
Topic: Copyright Infringement and Piracy
Level: ADVANCED
Questions:
1. Do you think that books, movies and CDs too expensive nowadays? How high should the prices be?
2. Do you think that the main reason why people nowadays download books, movies and music mostly from the Internet because it is too expensive to buy them?
3. Do you agree that too restrictive copyright laws damage the culture, because they harm the dissemination of information and new ideas?
4. What do you think about internet piracy?
5. “Real property” is not missing when copying. Is copying theft?
6. Do you think that copyright laws really protect authors?
7. There is music production software that can create music, making lots of different melodies and keeping most pleasant tunes for human ear. This kind of software can be very productive. Should anyone hold the copyright to the tracks created by such software?
8. Every day we see a lot of different images, listen to many songs, that’s why authors can sometimes copy others’ works of art unconsciously. Should we distinguish these cases from the cases, when people intentionally copy other authors?
9. Do you think that people would pay for content, if the prices were reasonable?
10. Is fighting with the dissemination of information is fighting with the Internet itself?

ID: 73
Topic: Privacy
Level: ADVANCED
Questions:
1. What is privacy?
2. Why privacy is important for many people?
3. To what extent do public officials have a right to privacy?
4. Do you think the government has the right to read your emails?
5. How can the press balance freedom of expression with respect for privacy?
6. What is the greatest threat to people`s privacy?
7. Do you think that collecting information about users by web-sites and Internet services should be banned?
8. Do you think that security services sometimes break laws while tracking people`s activity?
9. Do you think it`s ok when employers are tracking the activity of their employees in the Internet?
10. Do you think there will be less personal freedom and privacy in future?

ID: 74
Topic: Euthanasia
Level: ADVANCED
Questions:
1. What is the difference between euthanasia and suicide?
2. Is there a difference between euthanasia and murder?
3. Does a family member or a doctor have the right to turn off a life support machine?
4. How long should doctors keep someone alive who is brain dead?
5. Don’t you think doctors have a duty to keep people alive?
6. Is euthanasia a compassionate way for the dying to die?
7. Do governments have the right to keep suffering people alive?
8. Why not allow euthanasia to save on health care costs?
9. Do people have a right to die?
10. Do you think euthanasia will be more common in future?

ID: 75
Topic: Envy
Level: ADVANCED
Questions:
1. Why envy is such a painful feeling?
2. Are there situations when envy is practically unavoidable?
3. Is it possible to live in society, interact with other people and never to feel envious?
4. Given that emotions have evolved to help us, what could possibly be the purpose of envy?
5. Why is it we admire some and envy others?
6. What is the difference between admiration and envy?
7. Can admiration lead to envy?
8. What is the difference between envy and jealousy?
9. What are the ways to control envy?
10. Can envy lead to motivation?

ID: 76
Topic: Culture and Customs
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What customs do you think should no longer be practice?
2. What customs do you think should be revised?
3. What customs (from elsewhere) do you think should be included in our culture?
4. What do you think are the most important values of your culture?
5. What in your culture are you most proud about?
6. Do you think “when in Rome, do as the Romans do” is always good advice?
7. If aliens visited your country, what might surprise them?
8. Are there some cultural differences that provoke conflicts between people/nations?
9. Would you ever consider marrying or dating someone from another culture?
10. Would you ever consider living permanently in a country other than your home country?

ID: 77
Topic: Nursing Homes, Retirement Communities, Disabilities and Handicaps
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Why do you think people send their elders to nursing homes?
2. Do you think sending your loved ones to nursing homes is a kind of abandonment?
3. Do you think we should take care of our parents when they grow old?
4. What are the pros and cons of being in a nursing home?
5. Do you think handicapped people are treated well in your country?
6. Do you think that it should be mainly relatives’ duty to take care of handicapped people but not the one of the government or society?
7. Do you think that the general attitude for handicapped people has changed for the better recently?
8. Do disabled people have anything of value to add to society?
9. What are ways that disabled people can compensate for their weakness?
10. Do you agree that handicapped people should be given more rights and more opportunities?

ID: 78
Topic: Racism
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What images spring to mind when you hear the word “racism”?
2. Is racism getting worse or disappearing in your country?
3. What’s the best way to stamp out racism?
4. What punishments should there be for those guilty of racism?
5. Do you think racism will ever disappear from this world?
6. What kind of world would it be if there was no racism?
7. How do you explain racism to a child?
8. Do you think racism feels differently to black, white, Asian, Indian, Arab… people?
9. What are the real reasons for racism in your opinion?
10. Will racism provoke more conflicts/wars in future?

ID: 79
Topic: Freedom
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What does it mean to be free?
2. What guarantees/limits our freedom?
3. Do you think you have as much freedom as you want in your life?
4. What would it be like to live where there is little freedom of choice?
5. Is it possible to be absolutely free?
6. Do you think that there is as much freedom as you want in your country?
7. In what ways does your country take away your freedom?
8. Can freedom damage a country?
9. Does money make people free?
10. Could there be any freedom in relationship?

ID: 80
Topic: Manners
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Who sets up rules and why do we need them?
2. Do these rules make our lives easier or more difficult?
3. Who decides what’s rude and what’s not?
4. How do you distinguish a good behavior from a bad one?
5. Why are there so many rules around: a) table and food, b) personal look, hygiene, c) money?
6. Do you think we play by the rules of society only because of fear of social disapproval?
7. Are you tolerant towards those who don’t play by the rules of society?
8. What should be the rules of using cell phones?
9. Is swearing (foul language) ok in public?
10. Why so many people behave politely in public but allow themselves being rude with dear people – friends, relatives, spouses?

ID: 81
Topic: Crime and Punishment
Level: ADVANCED
Questions:
1. Is physical force a justifiable method of punishing criminals?
2. Should the death penalty exist as a punishment for murder or terrorism?
3. Should the main purpose of prison be punishment or rehabilitation?
4. Are there any activities you feel should not be outlawed?
5. Are there any criminal activities you feel should be legalized?
6. Do you think the length of crime sentences is fair in our country?
7. What is the best way to deal with juvenile crimes?
8. How strict should the law be with people who drink and drive?
9. Should the police have the right to stop and search you in the street without a warrant?
10. Does severe punishment makes criminals more dissatisfied and angry at society?

ID: 82
Topic: Relationships
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What causes divorce?
2. What is the effect of divorce on children?
3. How does the divorce of parents affect the dating and marriage relationships of their children?
4. What is the effect of long distance on relationships?
5. How does living together before being married affect a relationship?
6. What causes men to be afraid of commitment?
7. What causes children to rebel against their parents?
8. Does going to college cause people to have better marriages?
9. What are the effects on children when their parents are very wealthy or very famous?
10. What causes a family to have close relationships?

ID: 83
Topic: Ambitions
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What’s the difference between an ambition and a goal?
2. Is it important to have ambitions?
3. Can ambitions be dangerous?
4. Can ambitious people be arrogant sometimes?
5. Thomas Carlyle said: “I've got a great ambition to die of exhaustion rather than boredom.” Do you agree with this statement?
6. Thomas Jefferson said: “Nothing can stop the man with the right mental attitude from achieving his goal; nothing on earth can help the man with the wrong mental attitude.” Do you agree?
7. Why do we have ambitions?
8. Should a person always have ambitions?
9. Thomas Merton said: “When ambition ends, happiness begins.” Do you think he was right?
10. Marcus Aurelius said: “A man's worth is no greater than the worth of his ambitions.” Do you agree?

ID: 84
Topic: Life and Death
Level: ADVANCED
Questions:
1. Do you think that there is anything worth dying for?
2. Do you want to know the date of your death? Why or why not?
3. Do you think that it is fine to use euthanasia to relieve a severely ill person from suffering?
4. Would you consider physician assisted suicide if you were suffering a painful dying experience?
5. Is there any person you would die for in order to save?
6. What are your beliefs pertaining to a person`s soul once they have died?
7. What do you think of suicide?
8. What do you think would happen if there were no death for human beings?
9. Do you think that using cryogenics to preserve a severely ill person`s life is a good or a bad idea?
10. Why is facing death a difficult experience?

ID: 85
Topic: Vegetarianism
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you think restaurants should offer one or two vegetarian dishes on their menu?
2. If someone eats cheese and drinks milk, are they vegetarian?
3. If someone wears leather shoes or a fur coat, can they call themselves “vegetarian”?
4. What is the most logical reason for becoming a vegetarian?
5. What are the advantages and disadvantages of being vegetarian in your opinion?
6. What would be more difficult for you to eat - a strange new vegetable/fruit, or an exotic piece of meat?
7. What are the proven benefits of eating meat?
8. Would you marry a vegetarian if it meant you could not cook meat at home?
9. What is a better reason for becoming a vegetarian: health reasons or animal rights?
10. Do you agree that more and more people are turning into vegetarians because it is just a new trend in our society?

ID: 86
Topic: Experience
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. How do you understand the meaning of the word “experience”?
2. What do you consider positive and negative experience?
3. How can we get new experience?
4. Do you prefer to cope with new or difficult life situations on your own or ask advice of your friends/relatives?
5. Do you think that having a good intuition can help a person to solve his problems/make right decisions?
6. There is a phrase: “Life is a rehearsal for the performance that will never come about” (the movie Amélie). What do you think about this quotation?
7. We constantly learn something new about life, face different kinds of challenges. You never know when life is going to teach you a lesson. Are you sometimes afraid of these challenges?
8. Do you think that it is good to learn from mistakes made by other people?
9. Is it possible to avoid any troubles in life thanks to one`s experience?
10. Do you think that professional experience is the only thing that matters for an employer?

ID: 87
Topic: Living abroad
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What are the advantages and disadvantages of living abroad?
2. Would you like to leave for good or for a certain period of time?
3. Do you think it's right or wrong to leave your country? Is there any ethical or patriotic basis, in your opinion?
4. Do you think it is hard for a foreigner to live abroad?
5. Do you think anyone can leave the country and be happy in a new place?
6. Do you think that knowing the language of a country you are moving into is a prerequisite or one can learn it while living in a foreign country?
7. What is the best age to leave the country?
8. What are the appropriate conditions to leave the country?
9. Do you think that living in another country will make you change your lifestyle and your habits?
10. Do you think that it is possible to become a “native” after living in a foreign country long enough?

ID: 88
Topic: Exercise and Physical Training
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What springs to mind when you hear the word “exercise”?
2. Why is exercise so important?
3. What kind of exercise do you think is the best one?
4. Why do many people not exercise?
5. Do you think it’s easy or difficult to find time to exercise during the day?
6. Do you think people who exercise are happier than those who don’t?
7. Do you think there should be a law that requires everyone to exercise?
8. Is it more fun to exercise alone or with other people?
9. What are the bad things about exercise?
10. Do you think exercising makes your brain work better?

ID: 89
Topic: Would you ever…?
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Would you ever stop studying English?
2. Would you ever change your religion or take up a religion?
3. Would you ever marry for money?
4. Would you ever leave your country forever?
5. Would you ever have cosmetic surgery?
6. Would you ever agree to being cloned?
7. Would you ever date someone with a criminal record?
8. Would you ever consider being a spy for your country?
9. Would you ever shave off all the hair on your head?
10. Would you ever give all of your money to charity?

ID: 90
Topic: What’s it like …?
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What’s it like being you?
2. What’s it like in your idea of paradise?
3. What’s it like being your age?
4. What’s it like living in the 21st Century?
5. What’s it like studying English?
6. What’s it like to be a citizen of your country?
7. What’s it like to be intelligent and talented?
8. What’s it like to be lucky?
9. What’s it like to be a man/woman today?
10. What’s it like in the world you’d like to live in?

ID: 91
Topic: Honesty
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What is the definition of honesty?
2. Why is honesty important?
3. Why is honesty so difficult at times?
4. Why is it good to be honest?
5. At what times do you appreciate people being honest with you?
6. How can you be honest and not hurt someone?
7. Is it ever all right to give only a partial truth?
8. When might it be all right to give only a partial truth?
9. When might it be kind more to be completely honest with someone?
10. Can dishonesty be ever justified?

ID: 92
Topic: Management
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What comes to mind when you hear the word “management”?
2. What kind of people do well working in management?
3. What are the good and bad things about working in management?
4. Do you think management makes people happy?
5. Do you think average workers have a better quality of life than those in management?
6. How can the management of a company make its activity more effective and productive?
7. Do you think that even successful management strategies can be not very effective due to certain circumstances?
8. What personal qualities should a good manager have?
9. Do you think that management standards should be changed within time?
10. Is it possible to run a business effectively without having a certain management strategy?

ID: 93
Topic: The Art of Conversation
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What makes it easy to talk to someone?
2. What qualities should a good conversation partner have?
3. Who communicates better: men or women?
4. How do conversations between men and women differ?
5. Do you think that men and women express their thoughts in different ways or it depends on a person?
6. Should a person always try to prove that he is right in a discussion?
7. Should there be topics that are taboos in a conversation?
8. Do you think that there is a point in a discussion when opponent speakers should stop?
9. Do you think it is possible to prove your point of view in a discussion without making your opponent offended?
10. Is it hard to find a common language in a conversation with a stranger?

ID: 94
Topic: Social networking sites
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you think that social networking sites can be useful and entertaining at the same time?
2. Do you believe in dating over the internet?
3. Do you agree that a person should publish only true facts about oneself?
4. Do you feel safer communicating with people in virtual reality than in real life?
5. Do you think young people spend more time in social networking sites than the older ones?
6. Do you agree that your personal info should be protected better?
7. Can social networking sites be a source of procrastination?
8. What`s your attitude to kids and teenagers using computers and visiting social networking sites?
9. Should parents control the use of social networking sites by their children?
10. What are good and bad sides of social networking sites?

ID: 95
Topic: Problems
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Do you agree that problems and challenges help us grow and be more successful?
2. Is there any “best way” to solve a problem?
3. Do unsolvable problems exist?
4. Do you prefer to solve problems by yourself or to get help?
5. What is the best way to get help with problem solving?
6. Does one’s being an optimist or pessimist influence solving a problem?
7. Do we need problems?
8. Do you think that there are certain problems that can never be solved by one person but should be solved collectively?
9. Do you agree that some people increase the size of a problem by overthinking it?
10. How would we live if there were no problems at all?

ID: 96
Topic: Faith and Faithlessness
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What is faith?
2. What it faithfulness?
3. Is there a difference between faith and faithfulness?
4. How can faith affect one`s life?
5. Do you think every person should have faith?
6. Do you think society needs faith?
7. Is faithfulness harder to have than faith?
8. If you already believe something, is it possible to grow in faith?
9. Can you have faithfulness without faith?
10. Do you think that organized religion cannot make a person believe in God?

ID: 97
Topic: Advertising
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Is advertising a good or bad thing?
2. What factors are essential in making a good advertisement?
3. Do you think people who buy things after watching ad videos do that because they are easily persuaded?
4. Do you agree with an advertising ban on cigarettes?
5. What regulations should be applied to adverts to protect consumers?
6. What would the world be like without advertising?
7. Do you think advertising is a clever way of lying about products?
8. What products depend most on advertising?
9. Do you agree with the statement that “advertising is the engine of commerce”?
10. Do you think that advertising should contain only true information about product qualities?

ID: 98
Topic: Dilemma
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Which would you rather be a man or a woman?
2. Would you prefer a year in prison or a year completely alone on a beautiful desert island?
3. Given a choice would you choose not to eat for three days or not to sleep for three days?
4. What do you want a beautiful well decorated house which is miles from anywhere or an average house near to everything you want?
5. If you have to spend a month in Siberia or month in Sahara, which would you prefer?
6. Imagine this - you can either be incredibly rich but full of regrets with no hope or incredibly poor but full of hope. What would you like to be?
7. You can either be taller and less intelligent or considerably shorter and more intelligent. Which one do you prefer?
8. If you could have two weeks visiting ten different towns or two weeks in one particular interesting place, which kind of holiday would you go for?
9. Would you rather lose your sense of taste or your sense of smell?
10. Do you think people who are in dilemma should compromise in life?

ID: 99
Topic: Competition
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. What is the role of competition in our lives?
2. Can it be said that nowadays life is based on competition?
3. Does competition only refer to career and practical life?
4. How can competition influence our lives positively and negatively?
5. Do you think there should be healthy competition between boys and girls in studies in schools and universities?
6. Is competition between brothers and sisters in the family a good thing?
7. Can competition be a disaster sometimes?
8. Do you think competition among girls to look more beautiful is good or bad?
9. Do you think competition among men to look stronger, healthier and smarter is good or bad?
10. Is competition a good or a bad thing, in general?

ID: 100
Topic: Single life
Level: INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1. Why do you think some people remain single?
2. Do you think that single people like being single?
3. Is it better to be single or married?
4. What are the advantages of being single?
5. What are the advantages of being married?
6. Do you think that single people are happier?
7. Do you think it is easier for a man or a woman to be single?
8. Why do you think some people prefer to be single?
9. Do you think that there is a soul mate somewhere for everyone?
10. Do you think it is fair that in some countries married people get tax benefits and single people don't?