
Topic: Gay Community v.1
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1) Is being gay more difficult in some countries than others?
2) In your opinion, can a gay be a religious person?
3) What main problems do gays have in the military?
4) In what ways does the gay community try to tackle homophobia? Are they being successful?
5) Do you think being lesbian is viewed as being worse, the same or better than being gay in our society?
6) Could you name any famous lesbian through history?
7) Do you believe gays and heterosexuals have the same rights? Do they have equal duties?
8) What's your opinion on gay marriage?
9) What do you think of adoption by gay couples?
10) Do you think homosexual families can bring up children as well as straight families? If not, why?
11) What stereotypes do you know about gays?

-

Topic: Gay Community v.2
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1) What problems do you think someone goes through when they find out they are gay?
2) Do you think they should try to change?
3) In your opinion, should they say they are gay?
4) What do you think your parents' reaction would be if you told them you are gay?
5) Do you think one of them would take it better / worse?
6) Do you think their first reaction would persist or would it change?
7) How about your best friend's reaction?
8) How would you react if one of your children told you they're gay?
9) What are the main problems gays have to face at college?
10) Is it easier for a gay to live in a village or in a city?

-
Topic: Gay Community v.3
Level: UPPER_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1) About how many of them would you say are not offensive?
2) How is it being gay in your country?
3) Do you know anyone who is gay?
4) How about any celebrities?
5) Or any historical figure?
6) Are there any gay characters on a current TV series?
7) Could you tell us about them?
8) What's the meaning of "homophobia"?
9) In your view, is there homophobia in our society? If not, why?
10) Do you believe that the gay community is being discriminated against in any way?
11) If so, why do you think there is such discrimination?

-

Topic: Fears v.1
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1) Are there any parts of the city where you live which you are afraid to visit after dark? Where?
2) Are there certain weather conditions that scare people? What are they? Why do people become scared?
3) Are you afraid of flying?
4) Are you afraid of ghosts?
5) Are you afraid of giving a speech in public?
6) Are you afraid of going to the dentist?
7) Are you afraid of heights?
8) Are you afraid of the dark?
9) Are you afraid of getting old? Why?

-

Topic: Fears v.2
Level: PRE_INTERMEDIATE
Questions:
1) Are there any numbers that people are afraid of in your culture?
2) Were you afraid of the dark as a child?
3) What animal do you think is the most scary?
4) What is the scariest movie you have ever seen?
5) What is your biggest fear in life? Are you afraid that it might come true?
6) Do you believe people can be cured of phobias by hypnosis?
7) Are you afraid of speaking English?
8) A foreign language?
9) In front of many people?
10) At official functions?

-

Topic: Internet and Computers
Level: Intermediate
Questions:
1) What are two disadvantages of using smartphones and tablets?
2) What do you think about Cybercafes? Are they still useful?
3) Do you like a job in which you have to use computers?
4) Do you spend too much time online?
5) Does your mother of father know how to use a computer?
6) Do computers make life easier?
7) What websites do you visit in a regular basis?
8) What do you think about the Apple?
9) What are some advantages of using social networks?
10) Do you visit English websites?

-

Topic: Volunteer work
Level: Intermediate
Questions:
1) Why do people volunteer?
2) Would you like to work as a volunteer?
3) Have you ever done any volunteer work?
4) Is volunteering worth the time it takes?
5) Why would you enjoy volunteering?
6) Do you know anyone who has done volunteer work?
7) Have you ever benefitted by someone's volunteer work?
8) What benefits do you get personally by volunteering?
9) Can you list some reasons why people volunteer?
10) What types of volunteer work would be unpleasant for you?

-

Topic: Friends v.1
Level: Intermediate
Questions:
1) Are you good at making friends?
2) Can you remember your first friend?
3) What’s the best age for making friends?
4) How long has your strongest friendship lasted?
5) How often do you contact with your long-distance friends?
6) How difficult is it to maintain a friendship?
7) What can break a good relationship?
8) Is it a good idea to go on holiday with a friend?
9) What do you think about lending/borrowing money to/from a friend?
10) Would it be difficult if your friend was your boss or subordinate?

